AJ0	adjective (general or positive) e.g. good, old
AJC	comparative adjective e.g. better, older
AJS	superlative adjective, e.g. best, oldest
AT0	article, e.g. the, a, an, no. Note the inclusion of no: articles are defined as determiners which typically begin a noun phrase but cannot appear as its head.
AV0	adverb (general, not sub-classified as AVP or AVQ), e.g. often, well, longer, furthest. Note that adverbs, unlike adjectives, are not tagged as positive, comparative, or superlative. This is because of the relative rarity of comparative or superlative forms.
AVP	adverb particle, e.g. up, off, out. This tag is used for all prepositional adverbs, whether or not they are used idiomatically in phrasal verbs such as "Come out here", or "I can't hold out any longer".
AVQ	wh-adverb, e.g. when, how, why. The same tag is used whether the word is used interrogatively or to introduce a relative clause.
CJC	coordinating conjunction, e.g. and, or, but.
CJS	subordinating conjunction, e.g. although, when.
CJT	the subordinating conjunction that, when introducing a relative clause, as in "the day that follows Christmas". Some theories treat that here as a relative pronoun; others as a conjunction. We have adopted the latter analysis.
CRD	cardinal numeral, e.g. one, 3, fifty-five, 6609.
DPS	possessive determiner form, e.g. your, their, his.
DT0	general determiner: a determiner which is not a DTQ e.g. this both in "This is my house" and "This house is mine". A determiner is defined as a word which typically occurs either as the first word in a noun phrase, or as the head of a noun phrase.
DTQ	wh-determiner, e.g. which, what, whose, which. The same tag is used whether the word is used interrogatively or to introduce a relative clause.
EX0	existential there, the word there appearing in the constructions "there is...", "there are ...".
ITJ	interjection or other isolate, e.g. oh, yes, mhm, wow.
NN0	common noun, neutral for number, e.g. aircraft, data, committee. Singular collective nouns such as committee take this tag on the grounds that they can be followed by either a singular or a plural verb.
NN1	singular common noun, e.g. pencil, goose, time, revelation.
NN2	plural common noun, e.g. pencils, geese, times, revelations.
NP0	proper noun, e.g. London, Michael, Mars, IBM. Note that no distinction is made for number in the case of proper nouns, since plural proper names are a comparative rarity.
ORD	ordinal numeral, e.g. first, sixth, 77th, next, last. No distinction is made between ordinals used in nominal and adverbial roles. next and last are included in this category, as general ordinals.
PNI	indefinite pronoun, e.g. none, everything, one (pronoun), nobody. This tag is applied to words which always function as heads of noun phrases. Words like some and these, which can also occur before a noun head in an article-like function, are tagged as determiners, DT0 or AT0.
PNP	personal pronoun, e.g. I, you, them, ours. Note that possessive pronouns such as ours and theirs are included in this category.
PNQ	wh-pronoun, e.g. who, whoever, whom. The same tag is used whether the word is used interrogatively or to introduce a relative clause.
PNX	reflexive pronoun, e.g. myself, yourself, itself, ourselves.
POS	the possessive or genitive marker 's or '. Note that this marker is tagged as a distinct word. For example, "Peter's or someone else's" is tagged Peter's or someone else's ]]>
PRF	the preposition of. This word has a special tag of its own, because of its high frequency and its almost exclusively postnominal function.
PRP	preposition, other than of, e.g. about, at, in, on behalf of, with. Note that prepositional phrases like on behalf of or in spite of are treated as single words.
TO0	the infinitive marker to.
UNC	"unclassified" items which are not appropriately classified as items of the English lexicon. Examples include foreign (non-English) words; special typographical symbols; formulae; hesitation fillers such as errm in spoken language.
VBB	the present tense forms of the verb be, except for is or 's am, are 'm, 're, be (subjunctive or imperative), ai (as in ain't).
VBD	the past tense forms of the verb be, was, were.
VBG	-ing form of the verb be, being.
VBI	the infinitive form of the verb be, be.
VBN	the past participle form of the verb be, been
VBZ	the -s form of the verb be, is, 's.
VDB	the finite base form of the verb do, do.
VDD	the past tense form of the verb do, did.
VDG	the -ing form of the verb do, doing.
VDI	the infinitive form of the verb do, do.
VDN	the past participle form of the verb do, done.
VDZ	the -s form of the verb do, does.
VHB	the finite base form of the verb have, have, 've.
VHD	the past tense form of the verb have, had, 'd.
VHG	the -ing form of the verb have, having.
VHI	the infinitive form of the verb have, have.
VHN	the past participle form of the verb have, had.
VHZ	the -s form of the verb have, has, 's.
VM0	modal auxiliary verb, e.g. can, could, will, 'll, 'd, wo (as in won't)
VVB	the finite base form of lexical verbs, e.g. forget, send, live, return. This tag is used for imperatives and the present subjunctive forms, but not for the infinitive (VVI).
VVD	the past tense form of lexical verbs, e.g. forgot, sent, lived, returned.
VVG	the -ing form of lexical verbs, e.g. forgetting, sending, living, returning.
VVI	the infinitive form of lexical verbs , e.g. forget, send, live, return.
VVN	the past participle form of lexical verbs, e.g. forgotten, sent, lived, returned.
VVZ	the -s form of lexical verbs, e.g. forgets, sends, lives, returns.
XX0	the negative particle not or n't.
ZZ0	alphabetical symbols, e.g. A, a, B, b, c, d.

AJ0-AV0	adjective or adverb
AJ0-NN1	adjective or singular common noun
AJ0-VVD	adjective or past tense verb
AJ0-VVG	adjective or -ing form of the verb
AJ0-VVN	adjective or past participle
AVP-PRP	adverb particle or preposition
AVQ-CJS	wh-adverb or subordinating conjunction
CJS-PRP	subordinating conjunction or preposition
CJT-DT0	that as conjunction or determiner
CRD-PNI	one as number or pronoun
NN1-NP0	singular common noun or proper noun
NN1-VVB	singular common noun or base verb form
NN1-VVG	singular common noun or -ing form of the verb
NN2-VVZ	plural noun or -s form of lexical verb
VVD-VVN	past tense verb or past participle
